articles/cosmos-db/how-to-manage-database-account.md, before:

---
title: Learn how to manage database accounts in Azure Cosmos DB
description: Learn how to manage database accounts in Azure Cosmos DB
author: markjbrown
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.topic: sample
ms.date: 05/06/2019
ms.author: mjbrown
---

# Manage an Azure Cosmos account

This article describes how to manage various tasks on an Azure Cosmos account using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, and Azure Resource Manager templates.

## Create an account

### <a id="create-database-account-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

[!INCLUDE [cosmos-db-create-dbaccount](../../includes/cosmos-db-create-dbaccount.md)]

### <a id="create-database-account-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
# Create an account
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname' # must be lower case.

az cosmosdb create \
   --name $accountName \
   --resource-group $resourceGroupName \
   --kind GlobalDocumentDB \
   --default-consistency-level Session \
   --locations WestUS=0 EastUS=1 \
   --enable-multiple-write-locations true
```

### <a id="create-database-account-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell
```azurepowershell-interactive
# Create an Azure Cosmos Account for Core (SQL) API
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$location = "West US"
$accountName = "mycosmosaccount" # must be lower case.

$locations = @(
    @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 },
    @{ "locationName"="East US"; "failoverPriority"=1 }
)

$consistencyPolicy = @{
    "defaultConsistencyLevel"="BoundedStaleness";
    "maxIntervalInSeconds"=300;
    "maxStalenessPrefix"=100000
}

$CosmosDBProperties = @{
    "databaseAccountOfferType"="Standard";
    "locations"=$locations;
    "consistencyPolicy"=$consistencyPolicy;
    "enableMultipleWriteLocations"="true"
}

New-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Location $location `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

### <a id="create-database-account-via-arm-template"></a>Azure Resource Manager template

This Azure Resource Manager template will create an Azure Cosmos DB account for any supported API configured with two regions and options to select consistency level, automatic failover, and multi-master. To deploy this template, click on Deploy to Azure on the readme page, [Create Azure Cosmos DB account](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/101-cosmosdb-create-multi-region-account)

## Add/remove regions from your database account

### <a id="add-remove-regions-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

1. Sign in to [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). 

1. Go to your Azure Cosmos account, and open the **Replicate data globally** menu.

1. To add regions, select the hexagons on the map with the **+** label that corresponds to your desired region(s). Alternatively, to add a region, select the **+ Add region** option and choose a region from the drop-down menu.

1. To remove regions, clear one or more regions from the map by selecting the blue hexagons with check marks. Or select the "wastebasket" (🗑) icon next to the region on the right side.

1. To save your changes, select **OK**.

   ![Add or remove regions menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/add-region.png)

In a single-region write mode, you cannot remove the write region. You must fail over to a different region before you can delete the current write region.

In a multi-region write mode, you can add or remove any region, if you have at least one region.

### <a id="add-remove-regions-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'

# Create an account with 1 region
az cosmosdb create --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --locations westus=0

# Add a region
az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --locations westus=0 eastus=1

# Remove a region
az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --locations westus=0
```

### <a id="add-remove-regions-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Create an account with 1 region
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$location = "West US"
$accountName = "mycosmosaccount" # must be lower case.

$locations = @( @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 } )
$consistencyPolicy = @{ "defaultConsistencyLevel"="Session" }
$CosmosDBProperties = @{
    "databaseAccountOfferType"="Standard";
    "locations"=$locations;
    "consistencyPolicy"=$consistencyPolicy
}
New-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Location $location `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties

# Add a region
$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $accountName

$locations = @( 
    @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 },
    @{ "locationName"="East Us"; "failoverPriority"=1 } 
)

$account.Properties.locations = $locations
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties

# Azure Resource Manager does not wait on the resource update
Write-Host "Confirm region added before continuing..."

# Remove a region
$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $accountName

$locations = @( @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 } )

$account.Properties.locations = $locations
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

## <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions"></a>Configure multiple write-regions

### <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions-portal"></a>Azure portal

Open the **Replicate Data Globally** tab and select **Enable** to enable multi-region writes. After you enable multi-region writes, all the read regions that you currently have on the account will become read and write regions. 

![Azure Cosmos account configures multi-master screenshot](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/single-to-multi-master.png)

### <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'
az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --enable-multiple-write-locations true
```

### <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Update an Azure Cosmos Account from single to multi-master

$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $accountName

$account.Properties.enableMultipleWriteLocations = "true"
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

### <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions-arm"></a>Resource Manager template

An account can be migrated from single-master to multi-master by deploying the Resource Manager template used to create the account and setting `enableMultipleWriteLocations: true`. The following Azure Resource Manager template is a bare minimum template that will deploy an Azure Cosmos DB account for SQL API with a single region and multi-master enabled.

```json
{
    "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
    "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
    "parameters": {
        "name": {
            "type": "String"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "String",
            "defaultValue": "[resourceGroup().location]"
        }
    },
    "resources": [
        {
            "type": "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts",
            "kind": "GlobalDocumentDB",
            "name": "[parameters('name')]",
            "apiVersion": "2015-04-08",
            "location": "[parameters('location')]",
            "tags": {},
            "properties": {
                "databaseAccountOfferType": "Standard",
                "consistencyPolicy": { "defaultConsistencyLevel": "Session" },
                "locations": [
                    {
                        "locationName": "[parameters('location')]",
                        "failoverPriority": 0
                    }
                ],
                "enableMultipleWriteLocations": true
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

## <a id="automatic-failover"></a>Enable automatic failover for your Azure Cosmos DB account

The Automatic failover option allows Azure Cosmos DB to failover to the region with the highest failover priority with no user action should a region become unavailable. When automatic failover is enabled, region priority can be modified. Account must have two or more regions to enable automatic failover.

### <a id="enable-automatic-failover-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

1. From your Azure Cosmos DB account, open the **Replicate data globally** pane.

2. At the top of the pane, select **Automatic Failover**.

   ![Replicate data globally menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/replicate-data-globally.png)

3. On the **Automatic Failover** pane, make sure that **Enable Automatic Failover** is set to **ON**. 

4. Select **Save**.

   ![Automatic failover portal menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/automatic-failover.png)

### <a id="enable-automatic-failover-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
# Enable automatic failover on an existing account
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'

az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --enable-automatic-failover true
```

### <a id="enable-automatic-failover-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$accountName = "mycosmosaccount"

$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName

$account.Properties.enableAutomaticFailover="true";
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties;

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

## Set failover priorities for your Azure Cosmos account

After a Cosmos account is configured for automatic failover, the failover priority for regions can be changed.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You cannot modify the write region (failover priority of zero) when the account is configured for automatic failover. To change the write region, you must disable automatic failover and do a manual failover.

### <a id="set-failover-priorities-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

1. From your Azure Cosmos account, open the **Replicate data globally** pane.

2. At the top of the pane, select **Automatic Failover**.

   ![Replicate data globally menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/replicate-data-globally.png)

3. On the **Automatic Failover** pane, make sure that **Enable Automatic Failover** is set to **ON**.

4. To modify the failover priority, drag the read regions via the three dots on the left side of the row that appear when you hover over them.

5. Select **Save**.

   ![Automatic failover portal menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/automatic-failover.png)

### <a id="set-failover-priorities-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
# Assume region order is initially eastus=0 westus=1 southeastasia=2 on account creation
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'

az cosmosdb failover-priority-change --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --failover-policies eastus=0 southeastasia=1 westus=2
```

### <a id="set-failover-priorities-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Assume account currently has regions with priority: West US = 0, East US = 1, Southeast Asia = 2
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$accountName = "myaccountname"

$failoverPolicies = @(
    @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 },
    @{ "locationName"="Southeast Asia"; "failoverPriority"=1 },
    @{ "locationName"="East US"; "failoverPriority"=2 }
)

Invoke-AzResourceAction -Action failoverPriorityChange `
    -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" `
    -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $accountName -Parameters $failoverPolicies
```

## <a id="manual-failover"></a>Perform manual failover on an Azure Cosmos account

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Azure Cosmos account must be configured for manual failover for this operation to succeed.

The process for performing a manual failover involves changing the account's write region (failover priority = 0) to another region configured for the account.

> [!NOTE]
> Multi-master accounts cannot be manually failed over. For applications using the Azure Cosmos DB SDK, the SDK will detect when a region becomes unavailable, then redirect automatically to the next closest region if using multi-homing API in the SDK.

### <a id="enable-manual-failover-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

1. Go to your Azure Cosmos account, and open the **Replicate data globally** menu.

2. At the top of the menu, select **Manual Failover**.

   ![Replicate data globally menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/replicate-data-globally.png)

3. On the **Manual Failover** menu, select your new write region. Select the check box to indicate that you understand this option changes your write region.

4. To trigger the failover, select **OK**.

   ![Manual failover portal menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/manual-failover.png)

### <a id="enable-manual-failover-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
# Assume account currently has regions with priority: eastus=0 westus=1
# Change the priority order to trigger a failover of the write region
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'

az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --locations westus=0 eastus=1
```

### <a id="enable-manual-failover-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Assume account currently has regions with priority: West US = 0, East US = 1
# Change the priority order to trigger a failover of the write region
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$accountName = "myaccountname"

$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName

$locations = @(
    @{ "locationName"="East US"; "failoverPriority"=0 },
    @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=1 }
)

$account.Properties.locations=$locations;
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties;

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

## Next steps

For more information and examples on how to manage the Azure Cosmos account as well as database and containers, read the following articles:

* [Manage Azure Cosmos DB using Azure PowerShell](manage-with-powershell.md)
* [Manage Azure Cosmos DB using Azure CLI](manage-with-cli.md)

Commit message:

Adding note about sm to mm

articles/cosmos-db/how-to-manage-database-account.md, after:

---
title: Learn how to manage database accounts in Azure Cosmos DB
description: Learn how to manage database accounts in Azure Cosmos DB
author: markjbrown
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.topic: sample
ms.date: 05/06/2019
ms.author: mjbrown
---

# Manage an Azure Cosmos account

This article describes how to manage various tasks on an Azure Cosmos account using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, and Azure Resource Manager templates.

## Create an account

### <a id="create-database-account-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

[!INCLUDE [cosmos-db-create-dbaccount](../../includes/cosmos-db-create-dbaccount.md)]

### <a id="create-database-account-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
# Create an account
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname' # must be lower case.

az cosmosdb create \
   --name $accountName \
   --resource-group $resourceGroupName \
   --kind GlobalDocumentDB \
   --default-consistency-level Session \
   --locations WestUS=0 EastUS=1 \
   --enable-multiple-write-locations true
```

### <a id="create-database-account-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell
```azurepowershell-interactive
# Create an Azure Cosmos Account for Core (SQL) API
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$location = "West US"
$accountName = "mycosmosaccount" # must be lower case.

$locations = @(
    @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 },
    @{ "locationName"="East US"; "failoverPriority"=1 }
)

$consistencyPolicy = @{
    "defaultConsistencyLevel"="BoundedStaleness";
    "maxIntervalInSeconds"=300;
    "maxStalenessPrefix"=100000
}

$CosmosDBProperties = @{
    "databaseAccountOfferType"="Standard";
    "locations"=$locations;
    "consistencyPolicy"=$consistencyPolicy;
    "enableMultipleWriteLocations"="true"
}

New-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Location $location `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

### <a id="create-database-account-via-arm-template"></a>Azure Resource Manager template

This Azure Resource Manager template will create an Azure Cosmos DB account for any supported API configured with two regions and options to select consistency level, automatic failover, and multi-master. To deploy this template, click on Deploy to Azure on the readme page, [Create Azure Cosmos DB account](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/101-cosmosdb-create-multi-region-account)

## Add/remove regions from your database account

### <a id="add-remove-regions-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

1. Sign in to [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). 

1. Go to your Azure Cosmos account, and open the **Replicate data globally** menu.

1. To add regions, select the hexagons on the map with the **+** label that corresponds to your desired region(s). Alternatively, to add a region, select the **+ Add region** option and choose a region from the drop-down menu.

1. To remove regions, clear one or more regions from the map by selecting the blue hexagons with check marks. Or select the "wastebasket" (🗑) icon next to the region on the right side.

1. To save your changes, select **OK**.

   ![Add or remove regions menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/add-region.png)

In a single-region write mode, you cannot remove the write region. You must fail over to a different region before you can delete the current write region.

In a multi-region write mode, you can add or remove any region, if you have at least one region.

### <a id="add-remove-regions-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'

# Create an account with 1 region
az cosmosdb create --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --locations westus=0

# Add a region
az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --locations westus=0 eastus=1

# Remove a region
az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --locations westus=0
```

### <a id="add-remove-regions-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Create an account with 1 region
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$location = "West US"
$accountName = "mycosmosaccount" # must be lower case.

$locations = @( @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 } )
$consistencyPolicy = @{ "defaultConsistencyLevel"="Session" }
$CosmosDBProperties = @{
    "databaseAccountOfferType"="Standard";
    "locations"=$locations;
    "consistencyPolicy"=$consistencyPolicy
}
New-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Location $location `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties

# Add a region
$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $accountName

$locations = @( 
    @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 },
    @{ "locationName"="East Us"; "failoverPriority"=1 } 
)

$account.Properties.locations = $locations
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties

# Azure Resource Manager does not wait on the resource update
Write-Host "Confirm region added before continuing..."

# Remove a region
$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $accountName

$locations = @( @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 } )

$account.Properties.locations = $locations
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

## <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions"></a>Configure multiple write-regions

### <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions-portal"></a>Azure portal

Open the **Replicate Data Globally** tab and select **Enable** to enable multi-region writes. After you enable multi-region writes, all the read regions that you currently have on the account will become read and write regions. 

> [!NOTE]
> After you enable multi-region writes, you cannot disable it. 

![Azure Cosmos account configures multi-master screenshot](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/single-to-multi-master.png)

Please reach out to the askcosmosdb@microsoft.com alias for additional questions about this feature. 

### <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'
az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --enable-multiple-write-locations true
```

### <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Update an Azure Cosmos Account from single to multi-master

$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $accountName

$account.Properties.enableMultipleWriteLocations = "true"
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

### <a id="configure-multiple-write-regions-arm"></a>Resource Manager template

An account can be migrated from single-master to multi-master by deploying the Resource Manager template used to create the account and setting `enableMultipleWriteLocations: true`. The following Azure Resource Manager template is a bare minimum template that will deploy an Azure Cosmos DB account for SQL API with a single region and multi-master enabled.

```json
{
    "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
    "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
    "parameters": {
        "name": {
            "type": "String"
        },
        "location": {
            "type": "String",
            "defaultValue": "[resourceGroup().location]"
        }
    },
    "resources": [
        {
            "type": "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts",
            "kind": "GlobalDocumentDB",
            "name": "[parameters('name')]",
            "apiVersion": "2015-04-08",
            "location": "[parameters('location')]",
            "tags": {},
            "properties": {
                "databaseAccountOfferType": "Standard",
                "consistencyPolicy": { "defaultConsistencyLevel": "Session" },
                "locations": [
                    {
                        "locationName": "[parameters('location')]",
                        "failoverPriority": 0
                    }
                ],
                "enableMultipleWriteLocations": true
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

## <a id="automatic-failover"></a>Enable automatic failover for your Azure Cosmos DB account

The Automatic failover option allows Azure Cosmos DB to failover to the region with the highest failover priority with no user action should a region become unavailable. When automatic failover is enabled, region priority can be modified. Account must have two or more regions to enable automatic failover.

### <a id="enable-automatic-failover-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

1. From your Azure Cosmos DB account, open the **Replicate data globally** pane.

2. At the top of the pane, select **Automatic Failover**.

   ![Replicate data globally menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/replicate-data-globally.png)

3. On the **Automatic Failover** pane, make sure that **Enable Automatic Failover** is set to **ON**. 

4. Select **Save**.

   ![Automatic failover portal menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/automatic-failover.png)

### <a id="enable-automatic-failover-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
# Enable automatic failover on an existing account
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'

az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --enable-automatic-failover true
```

### <a id="enable-automatic-failover-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$accountName = "mycosmosaccount"

$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName

$account.Properties.enableAutomaticFailover="true";
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties;

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

## Set failover priorities for your Azure Cosmos account

After a Cosmos account is configured for automatic failover, the failover priority for regions can be changed.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You cannot modify the write region (failover priority of zero) when the account is configured for automatic failover. To change the write region, you must disable automatic failover and do a manual failover.

### <a id="set-failover-priorities-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

1. From your Azure Cosmos account, open the **Replicate data globally** pane.

2. At the top of the pane, select **Automatic Failover**.

   ![Replicate data globally menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/replicate-data-globally.png)

3. On the **Automatic Failover** pane, make sure that **Enable Automatic Failover** is set to **ON**.

4. To modify the failover priority, drag the read regions via the three dots on the left side of the row that appear when you hover over them.

5. Select **Save**.

   ![Automatic failover portal menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/automatic-failover.png)

### <a id="set-failover-priorities-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
# Assume region order is initially eastus=0 westus=1 southeastasia=2 on account creation
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'

az cosmosdb failover-priority-change --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --failover-policies eastus=0 southeastasia=1 westus=2
```

### <a id="set-failover-priorities-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Assume account currently has regions with priority: West US = 0, East US = 1, Southeast Asia = 2
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$accountName = "myaccountname"

$failoverPolicies = @(
    @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=0 },
    @{ "locationName"="Southeast Asia"; "failoverPriority"=1 },
    @{ "locationName"="East US"; "failoverPriority"=2 }
)

Invoke-AzResourceAction -Action failoverPriorityChange `
    -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" `
    -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name $accountName -Parameters $failoverPolicies
```

## <a id="manual-failover"></a>Perform manual failover on an Azure Cosmos account

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Azure Cosmos account must be configured for manual failover for this operation to succeed.

The process for performing a manual failover involves changing the account's write region (failover priority = 0) to another region configured for the account.

> [!NOTE]
> Multi-master accounts cannot be manually failed over. For applications using the Azure Cosmos DB SDK, the SDK will detect when a region becomes unavailable, then redirect automatically to the next closest region if using multi-homing API in the SDK.

### <a id="enable-manual-failover-via-portal"></a>Azure portal

1. Go to your Azure Cosmos account, and open the **Replicate data globally** menu.

2. At the top of the menu, select **Manual Failover**.

   ![Replicate data globally menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/replicate-data-globally.png)

3. On the **Manual Failover** menu, select your new write region. Select the check box to indicate that you understand this option changes your write region.

4. To trigger the failover, select **OK**.

   ![Manual failover portal menu](./media/how-to-manage-database-account/manual-failover.png)

### <a id="enable-manual-failover-via-cli"></a>Azure CLI

```azurecli-interactive
# Assume account currently has regions with priority: eastus=0 westus=1
# Change the priority order to trigger a failover of the write region
$resourceGroupName = 'myResourceGroup'
$accountName = 'myaccountname'

az cosmosdb update --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroupName --locations westus=0 eastus=1
```

### <a id="enable-manual-failover-via-ps"></a>Azure PowerShell

```azurepowershell-interactive
# Assume account currently has regions with priority: West US = 0, East US = 1
# Change the priority order to trigger a failover of the write region
$resourceGroupName = "myResourceGroup"
$accountName = "myaccountname"

$account = Get-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName

$locations = @(
    @{ "locationName"="East US"; "failoverPriority"=0 },
    @{ "locationName"="West US"; "failoverPriority"=1 }
)

$account.Properties.locations=$locations;
$CosmosDBProperties = $account.Properties;

Set-AzResource -ResourceType "Microsoft.DocumentDb/databaseAccounts" `
    -ApiVersion "2015-04-08" -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName `
    -Name $accountName -PropertyObject $CosmosDBProperties
```

## Next steps

For more information and examples on how to manage the Azure Cosmos account as well as database and containers, read the following articles:

* [Manage Azure Cosmos DB using Azure PowerShell](manage-with-powershell.md)
* [Manage Azure Cosmos DB using Azure CLI](manage-with-cli.md)
