articles/cosmos-db/sql-api-nodejs-samples.md, before:

---
title: Node.js examples for Azure Cosmos DB
description: Find Node.js examples on GitHub for common tasks in Azure Cosmos DB, including CRUD operations.
author: deborahc
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.subservice: cosmosdb-sql
ms.topic: sample
ms.date: 09/24/2018
ms.author: deborahc

---
# Azure Cosmos DB Node.js examples
> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [.NET Examples](sql-api-dotnet-samples.md)
> * [Java Examples](sql-api-java-samples.md)
> * [Async Java Examples](sql-api-async-java-samples.md)
> * [Node.js Examples](sql-api-nodejs-samples.md)
> * [Python Examples](sql-api-python-samples.md)
> * [Azure Code Sample Gallery](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/samples/?sort=0&service=cosmos-db)
> 
> 

Sample solutions that perform CRUD operations and other common operations on Azure Cosmos DB resources are included in the [azure-cosmos-js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples) GitHub repository. This article provides:

* Links to the tasks in each of the Node.js example project files.
* Links to the related API reference content.

**Prerequisites**

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

- You can [activate Visual Studio subscriber benefits](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/?ref=microsoft.com&utm_source=microsoft.com&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=visualstudio): Your Visual Studio subscription gives you credits every month that you can use for paid Azure services.

[!INCLUDE [cosmos-db-emulator-docdb-api](../../includes/cosmos-db-emulator-docdb-api.md)]

You also need the [JavaScript SDK](sql-api-sdk-node.md).
   
   > [!NOTE]
   > Each sample is self-contained, it sets itself up and cleans up after itself. As such, the samples issue multiple calls to [Containers.create](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/containers?view=azure-node-latest). Each time this is done your subscription will be billed for 1 hour of usage per the performance tier of the container being created.
   > 
   > 

## Database examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js) file of the [DatabaseManagement](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/DatabaseManagement) project shows how to perform the following tasks.

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a database if it does not exist](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js#L35-L37) |[Databases.createIfNotExists](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/databases?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [List databases for an account](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js#L40-L42) |[Databases.readAll](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/databases?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read a database by Id](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js#L40-L42) |[Database.read](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/database?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Delete a database](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js#L57-L60) |[Database.delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/database?view=azure-node-latest) |

## Container examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js) file of the [ContainerManagement](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/ItemManagement) project shows how to perform the following tasks.

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a container if it does not exist](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js#L36-L37) |[Containers.createIfNotExists](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/containers?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [List containers for an account](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js#L36-L37) |[Containers.readAll](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/containers?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read a collection by Id](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js#L47-L51) |[Container.read](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/container?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Delete a container](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js#L54-L55) |[Container.delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/container?view=azure-node-latest) |

## Item examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/ItemManagement/app.js) file of the [ItemManagement](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/ItemManagement) project shows how to perform the following tasks.

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create items](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L49-L56) |[Items.create](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/items?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read all items in a container](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L59-L64) |[Items.readAll](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/items?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read an item by ID](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L59-L64) |[Item.read](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read item only if item has changed](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L73-L94) |[Item.read](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest)<br/>[RequestOptions.accessCondition](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/requestoptions?view=azure-node-latest#accesscondition) |
| [Query for documents](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L97-L118) |[Items.query](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/items?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Replace an item](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L131-L136) |[Item.replace](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Replace item with conditional ETag check](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L139-L160) |[Item.replace](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest)<br/>[RequestOptions.accessCondition](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/requestoptions?view=azure-node-latest#accesscondition) |
| [Delete an item](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L162-L164) |[Item.delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest) |

## Indexing examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/IndexManagement/app.js) file of the [IndexManagement](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/IndexManagement) project shows how to perform the following tasks.

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Manually index a specific document](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L135-L177) |[RequestOptions.indexingDirective: 'include'](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/requestoptions?view=azure-node-latest#indexingdirective) |
| [Manually exclude a specific document from the index](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L90-L131) |[RequestOptions.indexingDirective: 'exclude'](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/requestoptions?view=azure-node-latest#indexingdirective) |
| [Use lazy indexing for bulk import or read heavy containers](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L183-L214) |[IndexingMode.Lazy](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/indexingmode?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Exclude a path from the index](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L352-L429) |[IndexingPolicy.ExcludedPath](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/indexingpolicy?view=azure-node-latest#excludedpaths) |
| [Allow a scan on a string path during a range operation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L219-L275) |[FeedOptions.EnableScanInQuery](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/feedoptions?view=azure-node-latest#enablescaninquery) |
| [Create a range index on a string path](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L281-L346) |[IndexKind.Range](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/indexkind?view=azure-node-latest), [IndexingPolicy](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/indexingpolicy?view=azure-node-latest), [Items.query](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/items?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Create a container with default indexPolicy, then update this online](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L435-L507) |[Containers.create](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/containers?view=azure-node-latest)


For more information about indexing, see [Azure Cosmos DB indexing policies](index-policy.md).

## Server-side programming examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/ServerSideScripts/app.js) file of the [ServerSideScripts](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/ServerSideScripts) project shows how to perform the following tasks.

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a stored procedure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ServerSideScripts/JS/upsert.js#L12-L72) |[StoredProcedures.create](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/storedprocedures?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Execute a stored procedure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ServerSideScripts/app.js#L44) |[StoredProcedure.execute](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/storedprocedure?view=azure-node-latest) |

For more information about server-side programming, see [Azure Cosmos DB server-side programming: Stored procedures, database triggers, and UDFs](stored-procedures-triggers-udfs.md).

Commit message:

Adding links to conceptual docs from sample docs

articles/cosmos-db/sql-api-nodejs-samples.md, after:

---
title: Node.js examples for Azure Cosmos DB
description: Find Node.js examples on GitHub for common tasks in Azure Cosmos DB, including CRUD operations.
author: deborahc
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.subservice: cosmosdb-sql
ms.topic: sample
ms.date: 09/24/2018
ms.author: deborahc

---
# Azure Cosmos DB Node.js examples
> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [.NET Examples](sql-api-dotnet-samples.md)
> * [Java Examples](sql-api-java-samples.md)
> * [Async Java Examples](sql-api-async-java-samples.md)
> * [Node.js Examples](sql-api-nodejs-samples.md)
> * [Python Examples](sql-api-python-samples.md)
> * [Azure Code Sample Gallery](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/samples/?sort=0&service=cosmos-db)
> 
> 

Sample solutions that perform CRUD operations and other common operations on Azure Cosmos DB resources are included in the [azure-cosmos-js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples) GitHub repository. This article provides:

* Links to the tasks in each of the Node.js example project files.
* Links to the related API reference content.

**Prerequisites**

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]

- You can [activate Visual Studio subscriber benefits](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/?ref=microsoft.com&utm_source=microsoft.com&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=visualstudio): Your Visual Studio subscription gives you credits every month that you can use for paid Azure services.

[!INCLUDE [cosmos-db-emulator-docdb-api](../../includes/cosmos-db-emulator-docdb-api.md)]

You also need the [JavaScript SDK](sql-api-sdk-node.md).
   
   > [!NOTE]
   > Each sample is self-contained, it sets itself up and cleans up after itself. As such, the samples issue multiple calls to [Containers.create](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/containers?view=azure-node-latest). Each time this is done your subscription will be billed for 1 hour of usage per the performance tier of the container being created.
   > 
   > 

## Database examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js) file of the [DatabaseManagement](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/DatabaseManagement) project shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about the Azure Cosmos databases before running the following samples, see [Working with databases, containers, and items](databases-containers-items.md) conceptual article. 

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a database if it does not exist](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js#L35-L37) |[Databases.createIfNotExists](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/databases?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [List databases for an account](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js#L40-L42) |[Databases.readAll](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/databases?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read a database by Id](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js#L40-L42) |[Database.read](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/database?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Delete a database](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/DatabaseManagement/app.js#L57-L60) |[Database.delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/database?view=azure-node-latest) |

## Container examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js) file of the [ContainerManagement](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/ItemManagement) project shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about the Azure Cosmos collections before running the following samples, see [Working with databases, containers, and items](databases-containers-items.md) conceptual article. 

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a container if it does not exist](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js#L36-L37) |[Containers.createIfNotExists](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/containers?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [List containers for an account](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js#L36-L37) |[Containers.readAll](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/containers?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read a collection by Id](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js#L47-L51) |[Container.read](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/container?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Delete a container](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ContainerManagement/app.js#L54-L55) |[Container.delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/container?view=azure-node-latest) |

## Item examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/ItemManagement/app.js) file of the [ItemManagement](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/ItemManagement) project shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about the Azure Cosmos documents before running the following samples, see [Working with databases, containers, and items](databases-containers-items.md) conceptual article. 

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create items](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L49-L56) |[Items.create](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/items?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read all items in a container](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L59-L64) |[Items.readAll](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/items?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read an item by ID](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L59-L64) |[Item.read](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Read item only if item has changed](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L73-L94) |[Item.read](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest)<br/>[RequestOptions.accessCondition](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/requestoptions?view=azure-node-latest#accesscondition) |
| [Query for documents](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L97-L118) |[Items.query](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/items?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Replace an item](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L131-L136) |[Item.replace](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Replace item with conditional ETag check](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L139-L160) |[Item.replace](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest)<br/>[RequestOptions.accessCondition](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/requestoptions?view=azure-node-latest#accesscondition) |
| [Delete an item](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ItemManagement/app.js#L162-L164) |[Item.delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/item?view=azure-node-latest) |

## Indexing examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/IndexManagement/app.js) file of the [IndexManagement](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/IndexManagement) project shows how to perform the following tasks.  To learn about indexing in Azure Cosmos DB before running the following samples, see [indexing policies](index-policy.md), [indexing types](index-types.md), and [indexing paths](index-paths.md) conceptual articles. 

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Manually index a specific document](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L135-L177) |[RequestOptions.indexingDirective: 'include'](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/requestoptions?view=azure-node-latest#indexingdirective) |
| [Manually exclude a specific document from the index](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L90-L131) |[RequestOptions.indexingDirective: 'exclude'](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/requestoptions?view=azure-node-latest#indexingdirective) |
| [Use lazy indexing for bulk import or read heavy containers](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L183-L214) |[IndexingMode.Lazy](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/indexingmode?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Exclude a path from the index](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L352-L429) |[IndexingPolicy.ExcludedPath](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/indexingpolicy?view=azure-node-latest#excludedpaths) |
| [Allow a scan on a string path during a range operation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L219-L275) |[FeedOptions.EnableScanInQuery](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/feedoptions?view=azure-node-latest#enablescaninquery) |
| [Create a range index on a string path](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L281-L346) |[IndexKind.Range](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/indexkind?view=azure-node-latest), [IndexingPolicy](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/indexingpolicy?view=azure-node-latest), [Items.query](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/items?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Create a container with default indexPolicy, then update this online](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/IndexManagement/app.js#L435-L507) |[Containers.create](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/containers?view=azure-node-latest)

## Server-side programming examples
The [app.js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/master/samples/ServerSideScripts/app.js) file of the [ServerSideScripts](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/tree/master/samples/ServerSideScripts) project shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about Server-side programming  in Azure Cosmos DB before running the following samples, see [Stored procedures, triggers, and user-defined functions](stored-procedures-triggers-udfs.md) conceptual article. 

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a stored procedure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ServerSideScripts/JS/upsert.js#L12-L72) |[StoredProcedures.create](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/storedprocedures?view=azure-node-latest) |
| [Execute a stored procedure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-js/blob/216672a679ab389e5b341280eeacab1cab3691e4/samples/ServerSideScripts/app.js#L44) |[StoredProcedure.execute](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/%40azure/cosmos/storedprocedure?view=azure-node-latest) |

For more information about server-side programming, see [Azure Cosmos DB server-side programming: Stored procedures, database triggers, and UDFs](stored-procedures-triggers-udfs.md).
