articles/cosmos-db/sql-api-java-samples.md, before:

---
title: 'Azure Cosmos DB: Java examples for the SQL API'
description: Find Java examples on GitHub for common tasks using the Azure Cosmos DB SQL API, including CRUD operations.
author: SnehaGunda
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.subservice: cosmosdb-sql
ms.devlang: java
ms.topic: sample
ms.date: 02/08/2018
ms.author: sngun

---
# Azure Cosmos DB: Java examples for the SQL API

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [.NET Examples](sql-api-dotnet-samples.md)
> * [Java Examples](sql-api-java-samples.md)
> * [Async Java Examples](sql-api-async-java-samples.md)
> * [Node.js Examples](sql-api-nodejs-samples.md)
> * [Python Examples](sql-api-python-samples.md)
> * [Azure Code Sample Gallery](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/samples/?sort=0&service=cosmos-db)
> 
> 

The latest sample applications that perform CRUD operations and other common operations on Azure Cosmos DB resources are included in the [azure-documentdb-java](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java) GitHub repository. This article provides:

* Links to the tasks in each of the example Java project files. 
* Links to the related API reference content.

**Prerequisites**

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]
  
- You can [activate Visual Studio subscriber benefits](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/?ref=microsoft.com&utm_source=microsoft.com&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=visualstudio): Your Visual Studio subscription gives you credits every month that you can use for paid Azure services.

[!INCLUDE [cosmos-db-emulator-docdb-api](../../includes/cosmos-db-emulator-docdb-api.md)]

You need the following to run this sample application:

* Java Development Kit 7
* Microsoft Azure DocumentDB Java SDK

You can optionally use Maven to get the latest Microsoft Azure DocumentDB Java SDK binaries for use in your project. Maven automatically adds any necessary dependencies. Otherwise, you can directly download the dependencies listed in the pom.xml file and add them to your build path.

```bash
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
	<artifactId>azure-documentdb</artifactId>
	<version>LATEST</version>
</dependency>
```

**Running the sample applications**

Clone the sample repo:
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java.git

$ cd azure-documentdb-java
```

You can run the samples either using Eclipse or from the command line using Maven.

To run from Eclipse:
* Load the main parent project pom.xml file in Eclipse; it should automatically load documentdb-examples.
* To run the samples, you need a valid Azure Cosmos DB Endpoint. The endpoints are read from `src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/AccountCredentials.java`.
* You can pass your endpoint credentials as VM Arguments in Eclipse JUnit Run Config or you can put your endpoint credentials in AccountCredentials.java.
    ```bash
    -DACCOUNT_HOST="https://REPLACE_THIS.documents.azure.com:443/" -DACCOUNT_KEY="REPLACE_THIS"
    ```
* Now you can run the samples as JUnit tests in Eclipse.

To run from the command line:
* The other way for running samples is to use maven:
* Run Maven and pass your Azure Cosmos DB Endpoint credentials:
    ```bash
    mvn test -DACCOUNT_HOST="https://REPLACE_THIS_WITH_YOURS.documents.azure.com:443/" -DACCOUNT_KEY="REPLACE_THIS_WITH_YOURS"
    ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > Each sample is self-contained; it sets itself up and cleans up after itself. The samples issue multiple calls to [DocumentClient.createCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createcollection). Each time this is done, your subscription is billed for 1 hour of usage for the performance tier of the collection created. 
   > 
   > 

## Database examples
The [DatabaseCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DatabaseCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create and read a database](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DatabaseCrudSamples.java#L64-L79) | [DocumentClient.createDatabase](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createdatabase)<br>[DocumentClient.readDatabase](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.readdatabase)<br>[Resource.setId](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.resource.setid) |
| [Create and delete a database](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DatabaseCrudSamples.java#L82-L93) | [DocumentClient.deleteDatabase](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.deletedatabase) |
| [Create and query a database](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DatabaseCrudSamples.java#L96-L111) | [DocumentClient.queryDatabases](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.querydatabases) |

## Collection examples
The [CollectionCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a single partition collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java#L74-L84) | [DocumentClient.createCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createcollection) |
| [Create a custom multi-partition collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java#L103-L155) | [DocumentCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentcollection)<br>[PartitionKeyDefinition](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.partitionkeydefinition)<br>[RequestOptions](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.requestoptions) |
| [Delete a collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java#L97-L99) | [DocumentClient.deleteCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.deletecollection) |

## Document examples
The [DocumentCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create, read, and delete a document](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentCrudSamples.java#L84-L122) | [DocumentClient.createDocument](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createdocument)<br>[DocumentClient.readDocument](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.readdocument)<br>[DocumentClient.deleteDocument](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.deletedocument) |
| [Create a document with a programmable document definition](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentCrudSamples.java#L126-L147) | [Document](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.document)<br>[Resource.setId](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.resource.setid) |

## Indexing examples
The [CollectionCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create an index and set indexing policy](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java#L125-L141) | [Index](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.index)<br>[IndexingPolicy](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.indexingpolicy) |

For more information about indexing, see [Azure Cosmos DB indexing policies](index-policy.md).

## Query examples
The [DocumentQuerySamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentQuerySamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Perform a simple cross-partition document query](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentQuerySamples.java#L108-L129) | [DocumentClient.queryDocuments](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.querydocuments)<br>[FeedOptions.setEnableCrossPartitionQuery](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.feedoptions.setenablecrosspartitionquery) |
| [Order by query](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentQuerySamples.java#L132-L154) | [FeedResponse<T>.getQueryIterator](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.feedresponse.getqueryiterator) |

For more information about writing queries, see [SQL query within Azure Cosmos DB](how-to-sql-query.md).

## Offer examples
The [OfferCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/OfferCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a collection and set throughput](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/OfferCrudSamples.java#L76-L102) | [DocumentClient.createCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createcollection)<br>[RequestOptions.setOfferThroughput](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.requestoptions.setofferthroughput) |
| [Read a collection to find the associated offer](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/OfferCrudSamples.java#L108-L132) | [Offer.getContent](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.offer.getcontent)<br>[DocumentClient.replaceOffer](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.replaceoffer)<br>[DocumentClient.readCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.readcollection)<br>[DocumentClient.queryOffers](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.queryoffers) |

## Partition key examples
The [SinglePartitionCollectionDocumentCrudSample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/SinglePartitionCollectionDocumentCrudSample.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a single partition collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/SinglePartitionCollectionDocumentCrudSample.java#L164-L207) | [DocumentClient.createCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createcollection) |
| [Change the throughput offer for a single partition collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/SinglePartitionCollectionDocumentCrudSample.java#L209-L223) | [DocumentClient.replaceOffer](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.replaceoffer) |

## Stored procedure examples
The [StoredProcedureSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/StoredProcedureSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a stored procedure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/StoredProcedureSamples.java#L85-L118) | [StoredProcedure](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.storedprocedure)<br>[DocumentClient.createStoredProcedure](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createstoredprocedure) |
| [Run a stored procedure with arguments](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/StoredProcedureSamples.java#L121-L144) | [DocumentClient.executeStoredProcedure](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.executestoredprocedure) |
| [Run a stored procedure with an object argument](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/StoredProcedureSamples.java#L147-L177) | [DocumentClient.executeStoredProcedure](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.executestoredprocedure) |

Commit message:

Adding links to conceptual docs from sample docs

articles/cosmos-db/sql-api-java-samples.md, after:

---
title: 'Azure Cosmos DB: Java examples for the SQL API'
description: Find Java examples on GitHub for common tasks using the Azure Cosmos DB SQL API, including CRUD operations.
author: SnehaGunda
ms.service: cosmos-db
ms.subservice: cosmosdb-sql
ms.devlang: java
ms.topic: sample
ms.date: 02/08/2018
ms.author: sngun

---
# Azure Cosmos DB: Java examples for the SQL API

> [!div class="op_single_selector"]
> * [.NET Examples](sql-api-dotnet-samples.md)
> * [Java Examples](sql-api-java-samples.md)
> * [Async Java Examples](sql-api-async-java-samples.md)
> * [Node.js Examples](sql-api-nodejs-samples.md)
> * [Python Examples](sql-api-python-samples.md)
> * [Azure Code Sample Gallery](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/samples/?sort=0&service=cosmos-db)
> 
> 

The latest sample applications that perform CRUD operations and other common operations on Azure Cosmos DB resources are included in the [azure-documentdb-java](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java) GitHub repository. This article provides:

* Links to the tasks in each of the example Java project files. 
* Links to the related API reference content.

**Prerequisites**

[!INCLUDE [quickstarts-free-trial-note](../../includes/quickstarts-free-trial-note.md)]
  
- You can [activate Visual Studio subscriber benefits](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/?ref=microsoft.com&utm_source=microsoft.com&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=visualstudio): Your Visual Studio subscription gives you credits every month that you can use for paid Azure services.

[!INCLUDE [cosmos-db-emulator-docdb-api](../../includes/cosmos-db-emulator-docdb-api.md)]

You need the following to run this sample application:

* Java Development Kit 7
* Microsoft Azure DocumentDB Java SDK

You can optionally use Maven to get the latest Microsoft Azure DocumentDB Java SDK binaries for use in your project. Maven automatically adds any necessary dependencies. Otherwise, you can directly download the dependencies listed in the pom.xml file and add them to your build path.

```bash
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
	<artifactId>azure-documentdb</artifactId>
	<version>LATEST</version>
</dependency>
```

**Running the sample applications**

Clone the sample repo:
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java.git

$ cd azure-documentdb-java
```

You can run the samples either using Eclipse or from the command line using Maven.

To run from Eclipse:
* Load the main parent project pom.xml file in Eclipse; it should automatically load documentdb-examples.
* To run the samples, you need a valid Azure Cosmos DB Endpoint. The endpoints are read from `src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/AccountCredentials.java`.
* You can pass your endpoint credentials as VM Arguments in Eclipse JUnit Run Config or you can put your endpoint credentials in AccountCredentials.java.
    ```bash
    -DACCOUNT_HOST="https://REPLACE_THIS.documents.azure.com:443/" -DACCOUNT_KEY="REPLACE_THIS"
    ```
* Now you can run the samples as JUnit tests in Eclipse.

To run from the command line:
* The other way for running samples is to use maven:
* Run Maven and pass your Azure Cosmos DB Endpoint credentials:
    ```bash
    mvn test -DACCOUNT_HOST="https://REPLACE_THIS_WITH_YOURS.documents.azure.com:443/" -DACCOUNT_KEY="REPLACE_THIS_WITH_YOURS"
    ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > Each sample is self-contained; it sets itself up and cleans up after itself. The samples issue multiple calls to [DocumentClient.createCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createcollection). Each time this is done, your subscription is billed for 1 hour of usage for the performance tier of the collection created. 
   > 
   > 

## Database examples
The [DatabaseCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DatabaseCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about the Azure Cosmos databases before running the following samples, see [Working with databases, containers, and items](databases-containers-items.md) conceptual article. 

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create and read a database](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DatabaseCrudSamples.java#L64-L79) | [DocumentClient.createDatabase](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createdatabase)<br>[DocumentClient.readDatabase](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.readdatabase)<br>[Resource.setId](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.resource.setid) |
| [Create and delete a database](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DatabaseCrudSamples.java#L82-L93) | [DocumentClient.deleteDatabase](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.deletedatabase) |
| [Create and query a database](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DatabaseCrudSamples.java#L96-L111) | [DocumentClient.queryDatabases](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.querydatabases) |

## Collection examples
The [CollectionCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about the Azure Cosmos collections before running the following samples, see [Working with databases, containers, and items](databases-containers-items.md) conceptual article.

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a single partition collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java#L74-L84) | [DocumentClient.createCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createcollection) |
| [Create a custom multi-partition collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java#L103-L155) | [DocumentCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentcollection)<br>[PartitionKeyDefinition](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.partitionkeydefinition)<br>[RequestOptions](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.requestoptions) |
| [Delete a collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java#L97-L99) | [DocumentClient.deleteCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.deletecollection) |

## Document examples
The [DocumentCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about the Azure Cosmos documents before running the following samples, see [Working with databases, containers, and items](databases-containers-items.md) conceptual article.

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create, read, and delete a document](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentCrudSamples.java#L84-L122) | [DocumentClient.createDocument](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createdocument)<br>[DocumentClient.readDocument](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.readdocument)<br>[DocumentClient.deleteDocument](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.deletedocument) |
| [Create a document with a programmable document definition](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentCrudSamples.java#L126-L147) | [Document](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.document)<br>[Resource.setId](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.resource.setid) |

## Indexing examples
The [CollectionCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about indexing in Azure Cosmos DB before running the following samples, see [indexing policies](index-policy.md), [indexing types](index-types.md), and [indexing paths](index-paths.md) conceptual articles. 

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create an index and set indexing policy](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/CollectionCrudSamples.java#L125-L141) | [Index](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.index)<br>[IndexingPolicy](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.indexingpolicy) |

For more information about indexing, see [Azure Cosmos DB indexing policies](index-policy.md).

## Query examples
The [DocumentQuerySamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentQuerySamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about the SQL query reference in Azure Cosmos DB before running the following samples, see [SQL query examples](how-to-sql-query.md) conceptual article. 


| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Perform a simple cross-partition document query](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentQuerySamples.java#L108-L129) | [DocumentClient.queryDocuments](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.querydocuments)<br>[FeedOptions.setEnableCrossPartitionQuery](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.feedoptions.setenablecrosspartitionquery) |
| [Order by query](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/DocumentQuerySamples.java#L132-L154) | [FeedResponse<T>.getQueryIterator](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.feedresponse.getqueryiterator) |

For more information about writing queries, see [SQL query within Azure Cosmos DB](how-to-sql-query.md).

## Offer examples
The [OfferCrudSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/OfferCrudSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks:

| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a collection and set throughput](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/OfferCrudSamples.java#L76-L102) | [DocumentClient.createCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createcollection)<br>[RequestOptions.setOfferThroughput](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.requestoptions.setofferthroughput) |
| [Read a collection to find the associated offer](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/OfferCrudSamples.java#L108-L132) | [Offer.getContent](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.offer.getcontent)<br>[DocumentClient.replaceOffer](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.replaceoffer)<br>[DocumentClient.readCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.readcollection)<br>[DocumentClient.queryOffers](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.queryoffers) |

## Partition key examples
The [SinglePartitionCollectionDocumentCrudSample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/SinglePartitionCollectionDocumentCrudSample.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about partitioning and partition keys in Azure Cosmos DB before running the following samples, see [Partitioning](partitioning-overview.md) conceptual article. 


| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a single partition collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/SinglePartitionCollectionDocumentCrudSample.java#L164-L207) | [DocumentClient.createCollection](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createcollection) |
| [Change the throughput offer for a single partition collection](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/SinglePartitionCollectionDocumentCrudSample.java#L209-L223) | [DocumentClient.replaceOffer](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.replaceoffer) |

## Stored procedure examples
The [StoredProcedureSamples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/StoredProcedureSamples.java) file shows how to perform the following tasks. To learn about Server-side programming  in Azure Cosmos DB before running the following samples, see [Stored procedures, triggers, and user-defined functions](stored-procedures-triggers-udfs.md) conceptual article. 


| Task | API reference |
| --- | --- |
| [Create a stored procedure](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/StoredProcedureSamples.java#L85-L118) | [StoredProcedure](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.storedprocedure)<br>[DocumentClient.createStoredProcedure](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.createstoredprocedure) |
| [Run a stored procedure with arguments](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/StoredProcedureSamples.java#L121-L144) | [DocumentClient.executeStoredProcedure](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.executestoredprocedure) |
| [Run a stored procedure with an object argument](https://github.com/Azure/azure-documentdb-java/blob/master/documentdb-examples/src/test/java/com/microsoft/azure/documentdb/examples/StoredProcedureSamples.java#L147-L177) | [DocumentClient.executeStoredProcedure](https://docs.microsoft.com/java/api/com.microsoft.azure.documentdb.documentclient.executestoredprocedure) |
