---
title: Semantic Reranker
titleSuffix: Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL
description: Improve relevancy of search results using AI-powered Semantic Reranker.
author: jcodella
ms.author: jacodel
ms.service: azure-cosmos-db
ms.subservice: nosql
ms.custom:
  - ignite-2025
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 10/30/2025
ms.update-cycle: 180-days
ms.collection:
  - ce-skilling-ai-copilot
appliesto:
  - ✅ NoSQL
---

# Semantic Reranker in Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL (Preview)

 The Semantic Reranker uses an AI model to score and reorder the results from a query (vector search, hybrid search, or other type of query) based on *relevancy* to the provided user search phrase or context. By integrating the reranker directly with Azure Cosmos DB, developers can apply reranking on any query results retrieved from any container (for example, using [vector](../vector-search.md), [full-text](full-text-search.md), or [hybrid](hybrid-search.md) search), while using the latest Azure Cosmos DB SDKs (Python & .NET) with minimal code changes.

The Semantic Reranker service uses the Microsoft AI Semantic Ranker model, developed internally by Microsoft and available today in [Azure AI Search's Semantic Ranker](/azure/search/semantic-search-overview).

## Why use Semantic Reranker?

When evaluating a search or retrieval system, four primary metrics define the end-user experience:

- **Accuracy / Recall**: How closely the retrieved results match the ground truth. For example, approximate vector search (DiskANN) vs exact search (flat)
- **Latency**: The total time taken to return results from query submission to response
- **Relevancy**: How well the retrieved documents match the user's intent. For example, a query for "best surf spots in Hawaii", a curated surf guide is more relevant than a general Hawaii travel article

The goal of the Semantic Reranker is to improve *relevancy* of the ordering of search results compared to the user's question or other context. The AI-powered semantic understanding can provide higher quality results near the top of your search, enhancing end-user experience and enriching agents with more relevant data in [Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)](rag.md). However, it may not provide benefits across all workloads. Calling the semantic reranker also increases the overall latency of the search by introducing another network call and inference time for the model to generate relevancy scores. It's important to evaluate relevance both before and after applying the Semantic Reranker to determine whether it delivers measurable improvements to your search and retrieval scenarios given the increase in latency.

- **Enhanced result quality**: AI-powered semantic understanding can provide higher quality results near the top of your search, enhancing end-user experience and enriching agents with more relevant data in [Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)](rag.md)
- **Seamless integration in Cosmos DB SDKs**: Works with existing vector, full-text, and hybrid search queries
- **Minimal code changes**: Easy to implement with the latest Azure Cosmos DB SDKs
- **Flexible application**: Can be applied to any query results from any container

## Semantic Reranker output

When you use make a call to the Semantic Reranker, the response can contain multiple fields including:
- **Original documents**: The reranked results contain the same documents that were returned from your original query, but reordered based on their semantic relevance to your provided context string. The document content and metadata remain unchanged and only the ordering is modified to improve relevancy.
- **Relevancy score**:  Each document in the reranked results includes a relevancy score from 0-1 that indicates how *semantically relevant* the document is to your provided search terms or context. The higher the score, the higher the relevance. These scores are generated by the AI model and help you understand:
    - Which results are most relevant to the user's intent
    - The confidence level of the semantic matching
    - How to potentially filter or threshold results based on relevancy
- **Inference latency**: The time spent by the service in the rerank request. 

## How to sign up for the preview

The Semantic Reranker is currently available in gated preview. To get access to this feature: [Sign up for the Semantic Reranker preview](https://aka.ms/AzureCosmosDB/RerankerPreview) and you are added to the waitlist

## Related content

- [Vector Search in Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL](../vector-search.md)
- [Full-text search in Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL](full-text-search.md)
- [Hybrid search in Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL](hybrid-search.md)
