articles/mariadb/quickstart-create-mariadb-server-database-using-azure-cli.md, before:

---
title: 'Quickstart: Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server - Azure CLI'
description: This quickstart describes how to use the Azure CLI to create an Azure Database for MariaDB server in an Azure resource group.
author: ajlam
ms.author: andrela
ms.service: mariadb
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 09/24/2018
ms.custom: mvc
---

# Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server by using the Azure CLI

You can use the Azure CLI to create and manage Azure resources from the command line or in scripts. This quickstart describes how to use the Azure CLI to create an Azure Database for MariaDB server in an Azure resource group in about five minutes. 

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/) account before you begin.

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it](../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you install and use the CLI locally, for this quickstart, you must run Azure CLI version 2.0 or later. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade the CLI, see [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli). 

If you have multiple subscriptions, choose the subscription that contains the resource or the subscription in which you are billed. To select a specific subscription ID in your account, use the [az account set](/cli/azure/account#az-account-set) command:

```azurecli-interactive
az account set --subscription 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
```

## Create a resource group

Create an [Azure resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-overview) by using the [az group create](/cli/azure/group#az-group-create) command. A resource group is a logical container in which Azure resources are deployed and managed as a group.

The following example creates a resource group named `myresourcegroup` in the `westus` location:

```azurecli-interactive
az group create --name myresourcegroup --location westus
```

## Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server

Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server by using the [az mariadb server create](/cli/azure/mariadb/server#az-mariadb-server-create) command. A server can manage multiple databases. Typically, a separate database is used for each project or for each user.

Setting | Sample value | Description
---|---|---
name | **mydemoserver** | Enter a unique name that identifies your Azure Database for MariaDB server. The server name can contain only lowercase letters, numbers, and the hyphen (-) character. It must contain between 3 and 63 characters.
resource-group | **myresourcegroup** | Enter the name of the Azure resource group.
sku-name | **GP_Gen5_2** | The name of the SKU. Follows the convention *pricing tier*\_*compute generation*\_*vCores* in shorthand. For more information about the **sku-name** parameter, see the section after this table.
backup-retention | **7** | How long a backup should be retained. The unit is days. Range: 7 to 35. 
geo-redundant-backup | **Disabled** | Whether geo-redundant backups should be enabled for this server. Allowed values: **Enabled**, **Disabled**.
location | **westus** | The Azure location for the server.
ssl-enforcement | **Enabled** | Whether SSL should be enabled for this server. Allowed values: **Enabled**, **Disabled**.
storage-size | **51200** | The storage capacity of the server (the unit is megabytes). Valid storage sizes are 5,120 MB (minimum) with increases in 1,024-MB increments. For more information about storage size limits, see [Pricing tiers](./concepts-pricing-tiers.md). 
version | **10.2** | The MariaDB major engine version.
admin-user | **myadmin** | The user name for the administrator login. The **admin-user** parameter can't be **azure_superuser**, **admin**, **administrator**, **root**, **guest**, or **public**.
admin-password | *your password* | The password of the administrator user. Your password must contain between 8 and 128 characters. It must contain characters from three of the following categories: English uppercase letters, English lowercase letters, numbers, and non-alphanumeric characters.

The **sku-name** parameter value follows the convention *pricing tier*\_*compute generation*\_*vCores* as shown in the following examples:
+ `--sku-name B_Gen5_4` maps to the Basic pricing tier, the Gen 5 compute generation, and 4 vCores.
+ `--sku-name GP_Gen5_32` maps to the General Purpose pricing tier, the Gen 5 compute generation, and 32 vCores.
+ `--sku-name MO_Gen5_2` maps to the Memory Optimized pricing tier, the Gen 5 compute generation, and 2 vCores.

For information about valid values by region and for tiers, see [Pricing tiers](./concepts-pricing-tiers.md).

The following example creates a server named **mydemoserver** in the West US region. The server is in the resource group **myresourcegroup** and has the server admin login **myadmin**. The server is a Gen 5 server in the General Purpose pricing tier and it has 2 vCores. A server name maps to a DNS name and must be globally unique in Azure. Substitute `<server_admin_password>` with your own server admin password.

```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server create --resource-group myresourcegroup --name mydemoserver  --location westus --admin-user myadmin --admin-password <server_admin_password> --sku-name GP_Gen5_2 --version 10.2
```

## Configure a firewall rule

Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server-level firewall rule by using the [az mariadb server firewall-rule create](/cli/azure/mariadb/server/firewall-rule#az-mariadb-server-firewall-rule-create) command. A server-level firewall rule allows an external application like the mysql command-line tool or MySQL Workbench to connect to your server through the Azure Database for MariaDB service firewall. 

The following example creates a firewall rule called `AllowMyIP` that allows connections from a specific IP address, 192.168.0.1. Substitute an IP address or range of IP addresses that corresponds to the location you connect from. 

```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server firewall-rule create --resource-group myresourcegroup --server mydemoserver --name AllowMyIP --start-ip-address 192.168.0.1 --end-ip-address 192.168.0.1
```

> [!NOTE]
> Connections to Azure Database for MariaDB communicate over port 3306. If you try to connect from inside a corporate network, outbound traffic over port 3306 might not be allowed. In this case, you can connect to your server only if your IT department opens port 3306.
> 

## Configure SSL settings

By default, SSL connections between your server and client applications are enforced. This default setting ensures security of "in-motion" data by encrypting the data stream over the internet. For this quickstart, disable SSL connections for your server. Disabling SSL is not recommended for production servers. For more information, see [Configure SSL connectivity in your application to securely connect to Azure Database for MariaDB](./howto-configure-ssl.md).

The following example disables SSL enforcing on your Azure Database for MariaDB server:
 
```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server update --resource-group myresourcegroup --name mydemoserver --ssl-enforcement Disabled
```

## Get connection information

To connect to your server, you need to provide host information and access credentials. To get the connection information, run the following command:

```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server show --resource-group myresourcegroup --name mydemoserver
```

The result is in JSON format. Make a note of the values for **fullyQualifiedDomainName** and **administratorLogin**.

```json
{
  "administratorLogin": "myadmin",
  "earliestRestoreDate": null,
  "fullyQualifiedDomainName": "mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com",
  "id": "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myresourcegroup/providers/Microsoft.DBforMariaDB/servers/mydemoserver",
  "location": "westus",
  "name": "mydemoserver",
  "resourceGroup": "myresourcegroup",
  "sku": {
    "capacity": 2,
    "family": "Gen5",
    "name": "GP_Gen5_2",
    "size": null,
    "tier": "GeneralPurpose"
  },
  "sslEnforcement": "Enabled",
  "storageProfile": {
    "backupRetentionDays": 7,
    "geoRedundantBackup": "Disabled",
    "storageMb": 5120
  },
  "tags": null,
  "type": "Microsoft.DBforMariaDB/servers",
  "userVisibleState": "Ready",
  "version": "10.2"
}
```

## Connect to the server by using the mysql command-line tool

Connect to your server by using the mysql command-line tool. You can [download](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/) the command-line tool and install it on your computer. You can also access the command-line tool by selecting the **Try It** button on a code sample in this article. Another way to access the command-line tool is to select the **>_** button on the upper-right toolbar in the Azure portal to open **Azure Cloud Shell**.

To connect to the server by using the mysql command-line tool:

1. Connect to the server:

  ```azurecli-interactive
  mysql -h mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com -u myadmin@mydemoserver -p
  ```

2. View the server status at the `mysql>` prompt:

  ```sql
  status
  ```
  You should see something similar to the following text:

  ```bash
  C:\Users\>mysql -h mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com -u myadmin@mydemoserver -p
  Enter password: ***********
  Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
  Your MySQL connection id is 65512
  Server version: 5.6.39.0 MariaDB Server

  Copyright (c) 2000, 2016, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

  Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
  affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
  owners.

  Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

  mysql> status
  --------------
  mysql  Ver 14.14 Distrib 5.7.23, for Linux (x86_64)

  Connection id:          64681
  Current database:
  Current user:           myadmin@40.118.201.21
  SSL:                    Cipher in use is AES256-SHA
  Current pager:          stdout
  Using outfile:          ''
  Using delimiter:        ;
  Server version:         5.6.39.0 MariaDB Server
  Protocol version:       10
  Connection:             mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com via TCP/IP
  Server characterset:    latin1
  Db     characterset:    latin1
  Client characterset:    utf8
  Conn.  characterset:    utf8
  TCP port:               3306
  Uptime:                 1 day 3 hours 28 min 50 sec

  Threads: 10  Questions: 29002  Slow queries: 0  Opens: 33  Flush tables: 3  Open tables: 1  Queries per second avg: 0.293
  --------------

  mysql>
  ```

> [!TIP]
> For additional commands, see [MySQL 5.7 Reference Manual - Chapter 4.5.1](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/mysql.html).

## Connect to the server by using MySQL Workbench

1.	Open MySQL Workbench on your client computer. If it's not already installed, [download](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/) and install the application.

2.	In the **Setup New Connection** dialog box, on the **Parameters** tab, enter the following information:

 ![Set up a new connection](./media/quickstart-create-mariadb-server-database-using-azure-cli/setup-new-connection.png)

  | Setting | Suggested value | Description |
  |---|---|---|
  |	Connection Name | **Demo connection** | Enter a label for this connection (the connection name can be anything) |
  | Connection Method | **Standard (TCP/IP)** | Use the TCP/IP protocol to connect to Azure Database for MariaDB |
  | Hostname | **mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com** | The server name that you noted earlier. |
  | Port | **3306** | The default port for Azure Database for MariaDB. |
  | Username | **myadmin@mydemoserver** | The server admin login that you noted earlier. |
  | Password | *your password* | Use the admin account password that you set up earlier. |

3. To check whether all parameters are configured correctly, select **Test Connection**.

4. Select the connection to successfully connect to the server.

## Clean up resources

If you don't need the resources that you used in this quickstart for another quickstart or tutorial, you can delete them by running the following command: 

```azurecli-interactive
az group delete --name myresourcegroup
```

If you want to delete only the server that you created in this quickstart, run the [az mariadb server delete](/cli/azure/mariadb/server#az-mariadb-server-delete) command:

```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server delete --resource-group myresourcegroup --name mydemoserver
```

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Design a MariaDB Database with Azure CLI](./tutorial-design-database-cli.md)

Commit message:

Add note to OSS DB quickstarts for Basic tier

articles/mariadb/quickstart-create-mariadb-server-database-using-azure-cli.md, after:

---
title: 'Quickstart: Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server - Azure CLI'
description: This quickstart describes how to use the Azure CLI to create an Azure Database for MariaDB server in an Azure resource group.
author: ajlam
ms.author: andrela
ms.service: mariadb
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 01/09/2019
ms.custom: mvc
---

# Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server by using the Azure CLI

You can use the Azure CLI to create and manage Azure resources from the command line or in scripts. This quickstart describes how to use the Azure CLI to create an Azure Database for MariaDB server in an Azure resource group in about five minutes. 

If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/) account before you begin.

[!INCLUDE [cloud-shell-try-it](../../includes/cloud-shell-try-it.md)]

If you install and use the CLI locally, for this quickstart, you must run Azure CLI version 2.0 or later. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade the CLI, see [Install Azure CLI 2.0]( /cli/azure/install-azure-cli). 

If you have multiple subscriptions, choose the subscription that contains the resource or the subscription in which you are billed. To select a specific subscription ID in your account, use the [az account set](/cli/azure/account#az-account-set) command:

```azurecli-interactive
az account set --subscription 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
```

## Create a resource group

Create an [Azure resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-overview) by using the [az group create](/cli/azure/group#az-group-create) command. A resource group is a logical container in which Azure resources are deployed and managed as a group.

The following example creates a resource group named `myresourcegroup` in the `westus` location:

```azurecli-interactive
az group create --name myresourcegroup --location westus
```

## Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server

Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server by using the [az mariadb server create](/cli/azure/mariadb/server#az-mariadb-server-create) command. A server can manage multiple databases. Typically, a separate database is used for each project or for each user.

Setting | Sample value | Description
---|---|---
name | **mydemoserver** | Enter a unique name that identifies your Azure Database for MariaDB server. The server name can contain only lowercase letters, numbers, and the hyphen (-) character. It must contain between 3 and 63 characters.
resource-group | **myresourcegroup** | Enter the name of the Azure resource group.
sku-name | **GP_Gen5_2** | The name of the SKU. Follows the convention *pricing tier*\_*compute generation*\_*vCores* in shorthand. For more information about the **sku-name** parameter, see the section after this table.
backup-retention | **7** | How long a backup should be retained. The unit is days. Range: 7 to 35. 
geo-redundant-backup | **Disabled** | Whether geo-redundant backups should be enabled for this server. Allowed values: **Enabled**, **Disabled**.
location | **westus** | The Azure location for the server.
ssl-enforcement | **Enabled** | Whether SSL should be enabled for this server. Allowed values: **Enabled**, **Disabled**.
storage-size | **51200** | The storage capacity of the server (the unit is megabytes). Valid storage sizes are 5,120 MB (minimum) with increases in 1,024-MB increments. For more information about storage size limits, see [Pricing tiers](./concepts-pricing-tiers.md). 
version | **10.2** | The MariaDB major engine version.
admin-user | **myadmin** | The user name for the administrator login. The **admin-user** parameter can't be **azure_superuser**, **admin**, **administrator**, **root**, **guest**, or **public**.
admin-password | *your password* | The password of the administrator user. Your password must contain between 8 and 128 characters. It must contain characters from three of the following categories: English uppercase letters, English lowercase letters, numbers, and non-alphanumeric characters.

The **sku-name** parameter value follows the convention *pricing tier*\_*compute generation*\_*vCores* as shown in the following examples:
+ `--sku-name B_Gen5_4` maps to the Basic pricing tier, the Gen 5 compute generation, and 4 vCores.
+ `--sku-name GP_Gen5_32` maps to the General Purpose pricing tier, the Gen 5 compute generation, and 32 vCores.
+ `--sku-name MO_Gen5_2` maps to the Memory Optimized pricing tier, the Gen 5 compute generation, and 2 vCores.

For information about valid values by region and for tiers, see [Pricing tiers](./concepts-pricing-tiers.md).

The following example creates a server named **mydemoserver** in the West US region. The server is in the resource group **myresourcegroup** and has the server admin login **myadmin**. The server is a Gen 5 server in the General Purpose pricing tier and it has 2 vCores. A server name maps to a DNS name and must be globally unique in Azure. Substitute `<server_admin_password>` with your own server admin password.

```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server create --resource-group myresourcegroup --name mydemoserver  --location westus --admin-user myadmin --admin-password <server_admin_password> --sku-name GP_Gen5_2 --version 10.2
```

> [!NOTE]
> Consider using the Basic pricing tier if light compute and I/O are adequate for your workload. Note that servers created in the Basic pricing tier cannot later be scaled to General Purpose or Memory Optimized. See the [pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/mariadb/) for more information.
> 

## Configure a firewall rule

Create an Azure Database for MariaDB server-level firewall rule by using the [az mariadb server firewall-rule create](/cli/azure/mariadb/server/firewall-rule#az-mariadb-server-firewall-rule-create) command. A server-level firewall rule allows an external application like the mysql command-line tool or MySQL Workbench to connect to your server through the Azure Database for MariaDB service firewall. 

The following example creates a firewall rule called `AllowMyIP` that allows connections from a specific IP address, 192.168.0.1. Substitute an IP address or range of IP addresses that corresponds to the location you connect from. 

```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server firewall-rule create --resource-group myresourcegroup --server mydemoserver --name AllowMyIP --start-ip-address 192.168.0.1 --end-ip-address 192.168.0.1
```

> [!NOTE]
> Connections to Azure Database for MariaDB communicate over port 3306. If you try to connect from inside a corporate network, outbound traffic over port 3306 might not be allowed. In this case, you can connect to your server only if your IT department opens port 3306.
> 

## Configure SSL settings

By default, SSL connections between your server and client applications are enforced. This default setting ensures security of "in-motion" data by encrypting the data stream over the internet. For this quickstart, disable SSL connections for your server. Disabling SSL is not recommended for production servers. For more information, see [Configure SSL connectivity in your application to securely connect to Azure Database for MariaDB](./howto-configure-ssl.md).

The following example disables SSL enforcing on your Azure Database for MariaDB server:
 
```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server update --resource-group myresourcegroup --name mydemoserver --ssl-enforcement Disabled
```

## Get connection information

To connect to your server, you need to provide host information and access credentials. To get the connection information, run the following command:

```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server show --resource-group myresourcegroup --name mydemoserver
```

The result is in JSON format. Make a note of the values for **fullyQualifiedDomainName** and **administratorLogin**.

```json
{
  "administratorLogin": "myadmin",
  "earliestRestoreDate": null,
  "fullyQualifiedDomainName": "mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com",
  "id": "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myresourcegroup/providers/Microsoft.DBforMariaDB/servers/mydemoserver",
  "location": "westus",
  "name": "mydemoserver",
  "resourceGroup": "myresourcegroup",
  "sku": {
    "capacity": 2,
    "family": "Gen5",
    "name": "GP_Gen5_2",
    "size": null,
    "tier": "GeneralPurpose"
  },
  "sslEnforcement": "Enabled",
  "storageProfile": {
    "backupRetentionDays": 7,
    "geoRedundantBackup": "Disabled",
    "storageMb": 5120
  },
  "tags": null,
  "type": "Microsoft.DBforMariaDB/servers",
  "userVisibleState": "Ready",
  "version": "10.2"
}
```

## Connect to the server by using the mysql command-line tool

Connect to your server by using the mysql command-line tool. You can [download](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/) the command-line tool and install it on your computer. You can also access the command-line tool by selecting the **Try It** button on a code sample in this article. Another way to access the command-line tool is to select the **>_** button on the upper-right toolbar in the Azure portal to open **Azure Cloud Shell**.

To connect to the server by using the mysql command-line tool:

1. Connect to the server:

  ```azurecli-interactive
  mysql -h mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com -u myadmin@mydemoserver -p
  ```

2. View the server status at the `mysql>` prompt:

  ```sql
  status
  ```
  You should see something similar to the following text:

  ```bash
  C:\Users\>mysql -h mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com -u myadmin@mydemoserver -p
  Enter password: ***********
  Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
  Your MySQL connection id is 65512
  Server version: 5.6.39.0 MariaDB Server

  Copyright (c) 2000, 2016, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

  Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
  affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
  owners.

  Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

  mysql> status
  --------------
  mysql  Ver 14.14 Distrib 5.7.23, for Linux (x86_64)

  Connection id:          64681
  Current database:
  Current user:           myadmin@40.118.201.21
  SSL:                    Cipher in use is AES256-SHA
  Current pager:          stdout
  Using outfile:          ''
  Using delimiter:        ;
  Server version:         5.6.39.0 MariaDB Server
  Protocol version:       10
  Connection:             mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com via TCP/IP
  Server characterset:    latin1
  Db     characterset:    latin1
  Client characterset:    utf8
  Conn.  characterset:    utf8
  TCP port:               3306
  Uptime:                 1 day 3 hours 28 min 50 sec

  Threads: 10  Questions: 29002  Slow queries: 0  Opens: 33  Flush tables: 3  Open tables: 1  Queries per second avg: 0.293
  --------------

  mysql>
  ```

> [!TIP]
> For additional commands, see [MySQL 5.7 Reference Manual - Chapter 4.5.1](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/mysql.html).

## Connect to the server by using MySQL Workbench

1.	Open MySQL Workbench on your client computer. If it's not already installed, [download](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/) and install the application.

2.	In the **Setup New Connection** dialog box, on the **Parameters** tab, enter the following information:

 ![Set up a new connection](./media/quickstart-create-mariadb-server-database-using-azure-cli/setup-new-connection.png)

  | Setting | Suggested value | Description |
  |---|---|---|
  |	Connection Name | **Demo connection** | Enter a label for this connection (the connection name can be anything) |
  | Connection Method | **Standard (TCP/IP)** | Use the TCP/IP protocol to connect to Azure Database for MariaDB |
  | Hostname | **mydemoserver.mariadb.database.azure.com** | The server name that you noted earlier. |
  | Port | **3306** | The default port for Azure Database for MariaDB. |
  | Username | **myadmin@mydemoserver** | The server admin login that you noted earlier. |
  | Password | *your password* | Use the admin account password that you set up earlier. |

3. To check whether all parameters are configured correctly, select **Test Connection**.

4. Select the connection to successfully connect to the server.

## Clean up resources

If you don't need the resources that you used in this quickstart for another quickstart or tutorial, you can delete them by running the following command: 

```azurecli-interactive
az group delete --name myresourcegroup
```

If you want to delete only the server that you created in this quickstart, run the [az mariadb server delete](/cli/azure/mariadb/server#az-mariadb-server-delete) command:

```azurecli-interactive
az mariadb server delete --resource-group myresourcegroup --name mydemoserver
```

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Design a MariaDB Database with Azure CLI](./tutorial-design-database-cli.md)
