---
title: Release Notes for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server - July 2025
description: Learn about the release notes for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server July 2025.
author: xboxeer
ms.author: yuzheng1
ms.reviewer: maghan
ms.date: 07/01/2025
ms.service: azure-database-mysql
ms.subservice: flexible-server
ms.topic: release-notes
---

# Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server July 2025 version release notes

We're excited to announce the July 2025 version of Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server. Starting July 1, 2025, all new servers will automatically be onboarded to this latest version. Existing servers are upgraded during their next scheduled maintenance. If you prefer to upgrade your servers earlier, you can enroll in our Virtual Canary Program by following this [link](https://aka.ms/mysql/virtual-canary).

This new version introduces a range of new features and enhancements, resolves known issues, and includes essential security patches to ensure optimal performance and security.

## Engine version changes

- All existing 8.4 server upgrades to 8.4.5 version.
- Innovation release version default to 9.3 version.
- No changes to existing 8.0 server.
- No changes to existing 5.7 server.

To check your engine version, run `SELECT VERSION();` command at the MySQL prompt.

After the maintenance succeeds, you can run the following command in the Azure CLI to check the Azure MySQL minor version as well:

```bash 
az mysql flexible-server show --resource-group {resource group name} --name {server name} --query "fullVersion"
```
> [!NOTE]  
> You must have the Azure CLI installed and updated to the latest version to run the above CLI command.

## Features

- Azure Database for MySQL now supports customer to bind Azure MySQL to a custom port. [Learn more](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/adformysql/now-in-public-preview-custom-port-support-in-azure-database-for-mysql-%E2%80%93-flexible/4432164)
- Azure Database for MySQL now supports ability to configure backup interval for the automatic backup’s taken by the system to improve restore speed. [Learn more](../concepts-backup-restore.md#backup-frequency)
- Azure Database for MySQL now supports a one-click Self-Heal utility that enables customers to proactively resolve common server issues such as connectivity or log corruption without opening a support case. [Learn more](../how-to-self-heal.md)

## Improvements

- binlog_storage_used metric is visible to customer
- Supporting larger text up to 8192 bytes for the Azure MySQL flexible server slow query logs

## Known Issues Fix

- Fixed the issue that maintenance window property is missing in the LIST server REST API.
- Fixed the shutdown crash issue of Azure MySQL 5.7 due to community bug
