---
title: Release Notes for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server - July 2026
description: Learn about the release notes for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server July 2026.
author: hariramt
ms.author: hariramt
ms.reviewer: maghan
ms.date: 07/10/2026
ms.service: azure-database-mysql
ms.topic: release-notes
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Azure Database for MySQL July 2026 version release notes

The July 2026 version of Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server is available. Starting July 14, 2026, all new servers automatically use this version. Existing servers upgrade during their next scheduled maintenance. To upgrade your servers earlier, enroll in the [Virtual Canary Program](https://aka.ms/mysql/virtual-canary).

This version introduces enhancements, resolves known problems, and includes important security patches to ensure optimal performance and security.

## Maintenance scheduling considerations

You can extend the maintenance reschedule window up to August 15, 2026.
Some servers with CMW enabled might be assigned a maintenance date outside of their preferred window. You can still reschedule the maintenance in the Azure portal to better align with your original CMW preference.

## Engine version changes

This version includes the following minor version changes:

- 8.0.44 -> 8.0.45
- 8.4.7 -> 8.4.8

## Features

This version doesn't introduce any new features.

## Improvements

- Added resiliency against transient network issues.
- During this scheduled maintenance window, a few HA-enabled servers migrate from the current architecture to a dedicated Standard Load Balancer (SLB) - based architecture. The candidate servers are communicated through the usual maintenance notifications. This enhancement adds a dedicated SLB to HA configurations for servers created with public access or private endpoints. By managing the MySQL data traffic path, the SLB eliminates the need for DNS changes during failovers, significantly reducing failover time. There's a brief extra downtime (of around 30 seconds) while this migration is performed. This feature isn't supported by servers using private access with a virtual network integration.

## Known issues fixes

- Fixes a timeout issue with major version upgrade availability and now recovers quickly in case of an exception.
- Fixes logic to allow MultiZone HA by checking for remaining supported zones.

## Related content

- [What's new in Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server](../whats-new.md)
- [Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server service tiers](../concepts-service-tiers-storage.md)
