---
title: Release Notes for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server - May 2025
description: Learn about the release notes for Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server May 2025.
author: xboxeer
ms.author: yuzheng1
ms.reviewer: maghan
ms.date: 05/07/2025
ms.service: azure-database-mysql
ms.subservice: flexible-server
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server May 2025 version release notes

We're excited to announce the May 2025 version of Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server. Starting May 1, 2025, all new servers will automatically be onboarded to this latest version. Existing servers are upgraded during their next scheduled maintenance. If you prefer to upgrade your servers earlier, you can enroll in our Virtual Canary Program by following this [link](https://aka.ms/mysql/virtual-canary).

This new version introduces a range of new features and enhancements, resolves known issues, and includes essential security patches to ensure optimal performance and security.

## Engine version changes

- All existing 8.0 server upgrades to 8.0.41 version.
- All existing 8.4 server upgrades to 8.4.4 version.
- Innovation release version default to 9.2 version.
- No changes to existing 5.7 server.

To check your engine version, run `SELECT VERSION();` command at the MySQL prompt, or use the CLI command below:

```bash 
az mysql flexible-server show --resource-group {resource group name} --name {server name} --query "fullVersion"
```
> [!NOTE]  
> You must have the Azure CLI installed and updated to the latest version to run the above CLI command. 

## Features

- A set of maintenance experience improvements. These features will become visible to customers only after our global deployment is complete. [Learn more](../how-to-maintenance-portal.md)
> [!NOTE]  
>  We've identified an issue where using ​​Reschedule to now​​ in the Azure Portal may not take effect due to a defect. We’re actively working to resolve this. Customers needing immediate rescheduling should use the Azure CLI command([az mysql flexible-server maintenance reschedule](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/mysql/flexible-server/maintenance?view=azure-cli-latest#az-mysql-flexible-server-maintenance-reschedule)).

## Improvement
- TLS_AES_128_CCM_SHA256 added for TLS 1.3
- TLS 1.2 order change, prefer ECDSA
- Weak cipher AES-CCM8 is removed from TLS 1.2

## Known issues fix
- No known issue fix in this release.
